# Meeting Notes: Governance, Mar 02 2021

Development meeting held @ 3PM [UTC](http://www.timebie.com/std/utc.php) in [grincoin#general channel on Keybase](https://keybase.io/team/grincoin). Meeting lasted ~ 60 min.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact.

**Community attendance:**
- antiochp
- cekickafa
- dburkett
- defistaker
- gringineer
- hendi
- joltz
- lehnberg
- nisya
- phyro
- quentinlesceller
- tromp
- vegycslol

_(apologies if I missed someone - submit a PR or contact @lehnberg to add)_

## Agenda points & Actions
### 1. Agenda review
The [proposed agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/398) was reviewed and a point about Testnet Mining with ASIC was added on the request of @tromp.

### 2. Action point follow ups from previous meetings

#### 2.1 Q4 financial report
- _lehnberg:_ I‚Äôve not gotten to it, but will have it done before end of this month for sure.

#### 2.2 Antioch paid?
- _lehnberg:_ @antiochp  - when are we getting you paid?
   - _lehnberg:_ Have we already paid you? I don‚Äôt think so right.
- _antiochp:_ No not yet - maybe we can do that after this meeting if necessary people are round?
   - üëç: _lehnberg_

### 3. ASIC Testnet Mining
- _tromp:_ As you all know, I received my ipollo miner in good order.
   - üöÄ: _antiochp, gringineer_
- _tromp:_ I've been running it at night. Mining solo against my own server node. Seeing 4-5% rejection rate. But it's too noisy to run at other times. So I was thinking about buying a wifi extender to move it into storage room. But @hendi offered to run it in his server racks 24/7. Which seems preferrable. If that's agreeable with everyone else, I'll be happy to ship it to him.
   - _lehnberg:_ @hendi you cool with this?
   - _hendi:_ Yes.
      - ‚≠ê: _lehnberg, antiochp, vegycslol, phyro, quentinlesceller_

#### Decision: Ship Council ASIC to @hendi
- _lehnberg:_ No objections from me at least.
   - üëç: _cekickafa, vegycslol_
- _tromp:_ I'm also fine with him running it a few hours per day on mainnet (maybe spread around to avoid long testnet stalls) to help cover electricity fees.
   - üëç: _lehnberg, cekickafa_
- _hendi:_ Thanks, though I don't think that's required:
100w * 24h/day * 365.25 days/year * 0.31‚Ç¨/kwh / 12 months/year = 22.65‚Ç¨/month in electricity
which is fine.
- _vegycslol:_ I hope we have a nonstop running testnet, so I prefer paying him. From funds üòÖ
- _tromp:_ 5 minutes out of every hour would not handicap testnet. If there are no objections, then let's consider this agreed upon.
   - üëç: _vegycslol_

### 4. Community funding
- _lehnberg:_ There‚Äôs active discussion in #community_fund and in forum, those interested can read up there. Let‚Äôs not repeat the same discussion in the meeting, and instead discuss how we‚Äôll get to some conclusion? Does anyone have any thoughts on the matter?
- _gringineer:_ The current fund managers have the reins, it's up to them to move forward with something.
- _cekickafa:_ I agree with antioch and tromps modified proposal. Simple and clear. More you discuss,it gets complex.
- _phyro:_ Tbd could change to whatever model they want after anyway or create subgroups if they agreed to.
   - üëÜ: _hendi_
- _dburkett:_ Again, not the place for this discussion ;)
- _hendi:_ I don't think it's possible to make everyone happy. We shouldn't do something that's obviously against donators' interests. The simple antioch's simple proposal is a step in The right direction without any big issues. I also agree with gringineer that The current fund managers have to decide, as They to with oTher funding requests.
- _dburkett:_ I think we should just see where the discussions lead, and try to find mutual agreement on something?
   - _lehnberg:_ Issue I have with this is that it‚Äôs not gated and may end up going on and on without any conclusion.
- _phyro:_ The issue with the current managers decided is that they could be accused of not picking the right thing. I think this is what they want to avoid.

- _lehnberg:_ So yes, on process, ultimately as others have pointed out here and elsewhere, the final decision will sit with the keyholders of the current fund. Question is how to get to a point where we can say ‚Äúyes, let‚Äôs go ahead with option x‚Äù, and whether can agree on that.
   - _hendi:_ I'd dare to say that there won't be a poInt where "everybody" agrees wIth any gIven optIon.
   - _lehnberg:_ No, we prob don‚Äôt need consensus. But would be nice to agree on some rules that don‚Äôt lead to people crying ‚Äúscaaaam‚Äù or sth.
   - _hendi:_ You're basically giving away 30% of your stash. How anybody could scream "scam" is beyond me.
   - _lehnberg:_ Give it a few weeks. üôÉ Or, we just agree that it‚Äôs okay that some people will be doing that.
   - _hendi:_ S/weeks/minutes.

- _dburkett:_ Yes, but we want to make sure we find something generally agreeable to make sure we're actually solving the underlying problems.

- _tromp:_ What if we put out a call for volunteers for new council members, with each one listing the proposals the are willing to operate under, possible in order of preference?
   - üëç: _hendi, antiochp, cekickafa, lehnberg, dburkett_
   - _lehnberg:_ This would be a way to sense check what‚Äôs practically doable.

- _dburkett:_ Just saying "here's 30% now shut up" leaves us in an impossible situation. If it doesn't solve the problem (i'm not sure it does), then any further discussion will just be met with "we gave you x million dollars, what more do you want!?"

- _antiochp:_ I think @tromp has the best suggestion here - lets see if we can get people to volunteer and go from there.
- _hendi:_ Further discussion wouldn't be with the council (they're indeed "done" after giving 30% away) buth with the new `tbd` group, that you'd presumably be a member of.
- _lehnberg:_ @tromp would you like to make the call? You seemed to have had some ideas on the process there, maybe post a draft in #community_fund for feedback before shipping?
   - _tromp:_ Ok, I can draft something up later today.
   - _lehnberg:_ Nice. 
   - 
### 5. RFC Update
_None._

### 6. Other questions
_None._

**Meeting adjourned.**